# Conformalized GAN (C-GAN) for Synthetic Data Generation

This project demonstrates the use of Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (C-GAN) for generating synthetic data. The focus is on comparing the performance of a standard GAN and a Conformalized GAN (C-GAN) using the Iris dataset. The synthetic data generated by both models is evaluated using various metrics, including Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) mean, Wasserstein distance, and Downstream Accuracy.

## Project Overview

This project involves:

1. **Training a Standard Conditional GAN** on the Iris dataset.
2. **Training a Conformalized Conditional GAN (C-GAN)**, a variant of C-GAN that uses additional regularization and theoretical guarantees.
3. **Evaluating the performance** of both GAN models based on various metrics:
   - **KS Mean**: Measures the similarity between the distribution of real and generated data.
   - **Wasserstein Mean**: Measures the Earth Mover's Distance between the real and generated data distributions.
   - **Downstream Accuracy**: Indicates how well a classifier trained on the synthetic data performs on real data.

## Requirements
```bash
torch>=1.8.0
numpy
pandas
scikit-learn
scipy
matplotlib
tqdm
```

You can install the necessary dependencies using the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Dataset

The model is trained on the Iris dataset, which consists of 150 samples from three species of Iris flowers. The dataset includes four features: sepal length, sepal width, petal length, and petal width.

## How to Run

Train both GAN and C-GAN models:

```bash
python main.py --model both

```

## Example Output

After running the script with the --model both option, the following terminal output will be generated:

```bash
(venv) rahul@MacBookAir cGAN % python main.py --model both
2025-03-29 17:04:42,016 - INFO - Loading Iris dataset...
2025-03-29 17:04:42,063 - INFO - Using device: mps
2025-03-29 17:04:42,063 - INFO - Training standard conditional GAN...
Epoch 0: D_loss=1.3601, G_loss=0.6270
...
Training Standard GAN: 100%|██████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████| 10000/10000 [01:25<00:00, 117.19it/s]
2025-03-29 17:06:08,156 - INFO - Training conformalized conditional GAN (C-GAN)...
Training Conformal GAN (cGAN): 100%|███████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████| 10000/10000 [03:03<00:00, 54.62it/s]
2025-03-29 17:09:11,278 - INFO - 
Evaluation Metrics Comparison:
2025-03-29 17:09:11,288 - INFO - 
             Metric      GAN    C-GAN
            KS_mean 0.138333 0.141667
   Wasserstein_mean 0.147386 0.162804
Downstream_Accuracy 0.966667 0.973333

```

